The tale begins with Khojisteh going to talk to the parrot in the night when the moon had risen.
Khojisteh all covered in gold and jewels wanted to go see a secret admirer since her husband was away (OOHHH..).
However, the parrot strongly advised her not to go since he said the secret admirer
would quit his affection for her with all the jewels she was wearing, similar to
the way the carpenter and goldsmith’s friendship broke (uh oh).
Since the parrot had said that, Khojisteh wanted to know more about the carpenter and
goldsmith’s story. So, the parrot began to tell the story. and here it goes ...
Both the goldsmith and carpenter took on a journey together and were struggling to pay for the expenses in the city.
Due to this stressful situation, they came up with a plan to pretend to be Brahmin;
and go to the temple where there were golden images for them to steal (GASP)!
According to the goldsmith and carpenter this was way to become RICHHH (crazy eh, Khojisteh).
Moving forward, they both went to the temple and began to worship. However, the
way they worshipped was quite shaming for the other Brahmins to see and they
started to leave one by one (I mean why wouldn’t they). Soon after some days,
the temple was entirely empty; only the goldsmith and carpenter were left.
Once the damage was done, they both went back to their homes, but there was an issue!
Sometime after, the goldsmith heard about the issue, and went to the carpenter’s place.
“Thou has forgotten our long friendship” said the goldsmith. However, the carpenter played the same
game the goldsmith played initially and made it seem as though he did nothing. But
the goldsmith knew something was up since he saw two bear cubs and not his kids.
The carpenter said, once the cubs are let loose and if they can recognize
you amongst all the people, I guess they are your children and, of course the
bear cubs recognized their father (I mean how could they not, with that stylish turban).
The symbolic meaning of a turban is faith and royalty. Within history, many Mughals wore
turbans to show prestige, power, and superiority.
Finally after, the goldsmith asked the carpenter for forgiveness of his deeds and said he
would return his share of gold if he gives him his children back.
The carpenter was quite upset with the goldsmith for his actions since he was unfair and dishonest.
The goldsmith brought his share of gold to the carpenter, and the carpenter
brought the children back to their original selves.At the end of the story, the parrot once again told
Khojisteh to not carry the jewels with her. After, Khojisteh wanted to take off her jewelry and go her sweet-heart.